Character Encoding Stability 
 Policies 
 Tech Site 
 | Site Map |
 Search 
 Unicode® Character Encoding Stability Policies 
 Unlike many other standards, the Unicode Standard is continually 
 expanding—new characters are added to meet a variety of uses, 
 ranging from technical symbols to letters for archaic languages. 
 Character properties are also expanded or revised to meet implementation 
 requirements. 
 In each new version of the Unicode Standard, the Unicode 
 Consortium may add characters 
 or make certain changes to characters that were encoded in a 
 previous version of the standard. However, the Consortium 
 imposes limitations on the types of changes that can be made, 
 in an effort to minimize the impact on existing implementations.
 This page lists the policies of the Unicode 
 Consortium regarding character encoding stability. These 
 policies are intended to ensure that text encoded in one version 
 of the standard remains valid and unchanged in later versions. 
 In many cases, the constraints imposed by these stability policies 
 allow implementers to simplify support for particular features 
 of the standard, with the assurance that their implementations 
 will not be invalidated by a later update to the standard. 
 The notation Unicode N.n+ 
 means “The Unicode Standard, Version N.n and all subsequent 
 versions.” 
 This page was last updated 2026-May-26. 
 Encoding Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 2.0+ 
 Once a character is encoded, it 
 will not be moved or removed. 
 This policy ensures that implementers can always depend on 
 each version of the Unicode Standard being a superset of the 
 previous version. The Unicode Standard may deprecate the character 
 (that is, formally discourage its use), but it will not reallocate, 
 remove, or reassign the character. 
 Note: Ordering of characters is handled via collation,
 not by moving characters to different code points. For 
 more information, see
 Unicode Technical 
 Standard #10, Unicode Collation 
 Algorithm , and the Unicode
 FAQ . 
 Name Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 2.0+ 
 The Unicode Name property value for any non-reserved 
 code point will not be changed. In particular, once a character is encoded, 
 its name will not be changed. 
 Together with the limitations in name syntax, this policy 
 allows implementations to create unique identifiers from character 
 names. The character names are used to distinguish between 
 characters and do not always express the full meaning of each 
 character. They are designed to be used programmatically and, 
 therefore, must be stable. 
 In some cases the original name chosen to represent the character 
 is inaccurate in one way or another. Any such inaccuracies are 
 dealt with by adding annotations to the
 character name list 
 (which is also printed in the Unicode Standard and provided 
 in a
 machine-readable format ), or by adding descriptive text 
 to the standard. In cases of outright errors in character names such as 
 misspellings, a character may be given a formal name alias. 
 Note: It is possible to produce translated names 
 for the characters, to make the information conveyed by the 
 name accessible to non-English speakers. 
 Formal Name Alias Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.0+ 
 Formal aliases, once assigned to 
 a character, will not be changed or removed. 
 Formal aliases are defined in the file 
 NameAliases.txt in 
 the Unicode Character 
 Database and listed in the character
 code charts . 
 Named Character Sequence Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.0+ 
 Named character sequences will not 
 be changed or removed. 
 This stability guarantee applies both to the name of the 
 named character sequence and to the sequence of characters so 
 named. 
 Named character sequences are defined in the file 
 NamedSequences.txt 
 in the Unicode Character 
 Database . For more information on named character sequences, 
 see Unicode 
 Standard Annex #34, 
 Unicode Named Character Sequences . 
 Note: There are also provisional named character 
 sequences, which are included in the Unicode Character Database 
 but are not covered by this stability policy. 
 Name Uniqueness 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 2.0+ 
 The names of characters, formal 
 aliases, and named character sequences are unique within a shared 
 namespace. 
 The names of characters, named character sequences, and formal 
 aliases for characters share a single namespace in which each 
 name uniquely identifies either a single character or a single 
 named character sequence. The definition of uniqueness is not 
 just a simple comparison of the characters—instead, the 
 loose 
 matching rules from UAX #44, Unicode Character Database 
 are used. 
 Note: As of Unicode 4.1, named character sequences were added 
 to this shared namespace; as of Unicode 5.0, formal aliases were also added. 
 Normalization Stability 
 A. Strong Normalization Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 4.1+ 
 If a string contains only characters from a given version 
 of Unicode, and it is put into a normalized form in accordance 
 with that version of Unicode, then the results will be identical 
 to the results of putting that string into a normalized form 
 in accordance with any subsequent version of Unicode. 
 More formally, given versions V and U of Unicode, and any string 
 S which only contains characters assigned according to both 
 V and U, the following are always true: 
 toNFC V (S) = toNFC U (S) 
 toNFD V (S) = toNFD U (S) 
 toNFKC V (S) = toNFKC U (S) 
 toNFKD V (S) = toNFKD U (S) 
 In particular, once a character is encoded, its canonical 
 combining class and decomposition mapping will not be changed 
 in any way. 
 Decomposition Mapping 
 Once a character is assigned, its 
 decomposition mapping will not change. 
 Canonical Combining Class 
 Once a character is assigned, its 
 canonical combining class will not change. 
 Note: If an implementation normalizes a string 
 that contains characters that are not assigned in 
 the version of Unicode that it supports, that string 
 might not be in normalized form according to a future 
 version of Unicode. For example, suppose that a Unicode 
 5.0 program normalizes a string that contains new Unicode 
 5.1 characters. That string might not be normalized according 
 to Unicode 5.1. 
 B. Weaker Version of Normalization Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 3.1+ 
 Note: 
 All of the guarantees implied by this weaker specification are 
 subsumed by the stricter stability constraints applicable to 
 Version 4.1 and later. 
 If a string contains only characters 
 from a given version of the Unicode, and it is put into a normalized 
 form in accordance with that version of Unicode, then the result 
 will also be in that normalized form according to any subsequent 
 version of Unicode. 
 The result will also be in 
 that normalized form according to any prior version of the standard 
 that contains all of the characters in the string (back to the 
 first applicable version, Unicode 3.1). 
 In particular, once a character is encoded, its canonical 
 combining class and decomposition mapping will not be changed 
 in a way that will destabilize normalization. Thus the following 
 constraints will be maintained under all circumstances: 
 Decomposition Mapping 
 The decomposition mapping may not 
 be changed except for the correction of exceptional errors which 
 meet all of the following conditions (1-3): 
 There is a clear and evident 
 error identified in the Unicode Character Database (such 
 as a typographic mistake). 
 The error constitutes a clear 
 violation of the identity stability policy. 
 The correction of such an error 
 does not violate the following constraints (a-d): 
 No character will be given 
 a decomposition mapping when it did not previously have 
 one. 
 No decomposition mapping 
 will be removed from a character. 
 No decomposition mapping 
 will change in type (canonical to compatibility, or 
 vice versa). 
 The number of characters 
 in a decomposition mapping will not change. 
 Canonical Combining Class 
 Once a character is assigned, its 
 canonical combining class will not change. 
 Note: If an implementation normalizes a string 
 that contains characters that are not assigned in 
 the version of Unicode that it supports, that string 
 might not be in normalized form according to a future 
 version of Unicode. For example, suppose that a Unicode
 4.0 program normalizes a string that contains 
 new Unicode 4.1 characters. That string might 
 not be normalized according to Unicode 4.1. 
 Note: In versions prior to Unicode 4.1, 
 there were exceptional cases where the normalization algorithm 
 had to be applied twice to put a string into normalized 
 form. See 
 Corrigendum #5: Normalization Idempotency 
 and 
 Unicode Standard Annex #15, Unicode Normalization Forms . 
 Identity Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 1.1+ 
 Once a character is encoded, its 
 properties may still be changed, but not in such a way 
 as to change the fundamental identity of the character. 
 The Consortium will endeavor to keep the values of the other 
 properties as stable as possible, but some circumstances may 
 arise that require changing them. Particularly in the situation 
 where the Unicode Standard first encodes less well-documented 
 characters and scripts, the exact character properties and behavior 
 initially may not be well known. 
 As more experience is gathered in implementing the characters, 
 adjustments in the properties may become necessary. Examples 
 of such properties include, but are not limited to, the following:
 General_Category 
 Case mappings 
 Bidirectional properties 
 Compatibility decomposition tags (such as <font> 
 or <compat> ) 
 Representative glyphs 
 However, character properties will not be changed 
 in a way that would affect character identity. For example, 
 the representative glyph for U+0041 “A” cannot be changed to 
 “B”; the General_Category for U+0041 “A” cannot be changed to 
 Ll (lowercase letter); and the decomposition mapping 
 for U+00C1 (Á) cannot be changed to <U+0042, U+0301> (B, ´). 
 Property Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.2+ 
 Normative and informative properties, once defined in the Unicode Character Database, will never be removed. 
 This stability guarantee does not apply to Contributory properties 
 (such as "Other_Alphabetic") 
 nor to Provisional properties. For a list of which 
 properties are Normative or Informative, see
 UAX #44, 
 Unicode Character Database . 
 In prior versions of the Unicode Standard, the only non-provisional property 
 that has ever been withdrawn from the standard was the informative property 
 Special_Case_Condition, which was removed as of Unicode 5.1. 
 This policy does not preclude the deprecation of a Unicode character property. 
 Such deprecation would not remove the property; it would only indicate a strong
 recommendation not to use it. 
 Property Domain Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.2+ 
 The domain of a normative or informative property will never change. In particular, a property of characters will
never be changed into a property of strings, and vice versa. 
 This policy applies to properties that are explicitly documented as being a property of strings or a property of
characters. This includes the properties listed in Section 2.7, Full Properties of UTS #18, Unicode Regular Expressions. 
 While unlikely, it is theoretically possible in certain versions of the standard that a Unicode property of strings may only apply to characters (that is, strings of length one). Whether the property actually applies to multi-character strings or the empty string
might change from version to version, but it remains documented as a property of strings. 
 This stability guarantee does not apply to Contributory properties 
 (such as "Other_Alphabetic") 
 nor to Provisional properties. For a list of which 
 properties are Normative or Informative, see
 UAX #44, 
 Unicode Character Database . 
 Property Value Stability 
 Values of certain properties are limited by the 
 constraints listed in the table below. 
 Note: The applicable version is given in the fourth column. 
 Property Group 
 Applicable Properties 
 Constraints 
 Applicable Unicode Versions 
 Bidi 
 Bidi_Class 
 No new Bidi_Class property values will be 
 added, except in the case when they are introduced along with newly encoded 
 characters such as bidirectional format controls. 
 3.0.0+ 
 Bidi_Class, Bidi_Mirrored 
 The property values for the bidirectional properties Bidi_Class and 
 Bidi_Mirrored preserve canonical equivalence. 
 4.0.0+ 
 Bidi_Paired_Bracket_Type 
 Characters that have a Bidi_Paired_Bracket_Type property value of 
 Open or Close also have the Bidi_Class property value Other_Neutral (ON) 
 and the Bidi_Mirrored property value Yes. 
 6.3.0+ 
 Case 
 Case_Folding 
 The Case_Folding property value is limited so that no string when 
 case folded expands to more than 3× in length (measured in code units). 
 3.0.1+ 
 Lowercase, Uppercase, Alphabetic 
 All characters with the Lowercase property and all characters with 
 the Uppercase property have the Alphabetic property. 
 4.1.0+ 
 General 
 General_Category 
 The enumeration of General_Category property values is fixed. No new values will be added. 
 2.1.3+ 
 General_Category 
 The General_Category property value Control (Cc) is immutable: the 
 set of code points with that value will never change. 
 1.1.5+ 
 General_Category 
 The General_Category property value Private_Use (Co) is immutable: 
 the set of code points with that value will never change. 
 2.0.0+ 
 General_Category 
 The General_Category property value Surrogate (Cs) is immutable: the 
 set of code points with that value will never change. 
 2.0.0+ 
 Name, Jamo_Short_Name 
 Once a character is assigned, both its Name and its Jamo_Short_Name 
 will never change. 
 2.0.0+ 
 Noncharacter_Code_Point 
 The Noncharacter_Code_Point property is an immutable code point 
 property, which means that its property values for all Unicode code 
 points will never change. 
 3.1.0+ 
 Identifiers 
 ID_Continue 
 Once a character is ID_Continue, it must continue to be so in all 
 future versions. 
 4.1.0+ 
 ID_Start 
 If a character is ID_Start then it must also be ID_Continue. 
 3.0.1+ 
 ID_Start 
 Once a character is ID_Start, it must continue to be so in all 
 future versions. 
 3.0.1+ 
 XID_Continue 
 Once a character is XID_Continue, it must continue to be so in all 
 future versions. 
 4.1.0+ 
 XID_Start 
 If a character is XID_Start then it must also be XID_Continue. 
 3.0.1+ 
 XID_Start 
 Once a character is XID_Start, it must continue to be so in all 
 future versions. 
 3.0.1+ 
 ID_Compat_Math_Continue 
 Once a character is ID_Compat_Math_Continue, it must continue to be so in all 
 future versions. 
 15.1.0+ 
 ID_Compat_Math_Start 
 If a character is ID_Compat_Math_Start then it must also be ID_Compat_Math_Continue. 
 15.1.0+ 
 ID_Compat_Math_Start 
 Once a character is ID_Compat_Math_Start, it must continue to be so in all 
 future versions. 
 15.1.0+ 
 Pattern_Syntax, Pattern_White_Space 
 The Pattern_Syntax and Pattern_White_Space 
 properties are immutable code point properties, which means that their 
 property values for all Unicode code points will never change. 
 4.1.0+ 
 Pattern_Syntax, Pattern_White_Space, ID_Continue, XID_Continue 
 If a character has the Pattern_Syntax or 
 Pattern_White_Space property, then it cannot have the ID_Continue or 
 XID_Continue property. 
 4.1.0+ 
 Normalization 
 Canonical_Combining_Class 
 The Canonical_Combining_Class property values are limited to the 
 values 0 to 254. 
 1.1.5+ 
 Canonical_Combining_Class 
 Once a character is assigned, its Canonical_Combining_Class will 
 never change. 
 3.0.0+ 
 Canonical_Combining_Class, General_Category 
 All characters other than those with General_Category property 
 values Spacing_Mark (Mc) and Nonspacing_Mark (Mn) have the 
 Canonical_Combining_Class property value 0. 
 1.1.5+ 
 Decomposition_Mapping 
 Canonical and compatibility mappings (Decomposition_Mapping property 
 values) are always in canonical order, and the resulting recursive 
 decomposition will also be in canonical order. 
 2.0.0+ 
 Decomposition_Mapping 
 Canonical mappings (Decomposition_Mapping property values) are 
 always limited either to a single value or to a pair. The second 
 character in the pair cannot itself have a canonical mapping. 
 3.0.0+ 
 Decomposition_Mapping 
 Canonical mappings (Decomposition_Mapping property values) are 
 always limited so that no string when normalized to NFC expands to more 
 than 3× in length (measured in code units). 
 2.0.0+ 
 Decomposition_Mapping 
 Once a character is assigned, its Decomposition_Mapping will never 
 change. 
 4.0.0+ 
 Decomposition_Mapping 
 Canonical mappings (Decomposition_Mapping property values) to a pair of 
 characters are limited such that the first of the pair in the mapping must 
 have ccc=0, except for the Decomposition_Mapping of the following four 
 characters: U+0344, U+0F73, U+0F75, U+0F81. 
 2.1.0+ 
 Numeric 
 General_Category, Numeric_Type 
 The set of characters having General_Category=Nd will always be the 
 same as the set of characters having Numeric_Type=de. 
 4.0.0+ 
 General_Category, Numeric_Type 
 Characters with the property 
 value Numeric_Type=de (Decimal) only occur in contiguous ranges of 10 
 characters, with ascending numeric values from 0 to 9 (Numeric_Value=0..9). 
 6.0.0+ 
 General_Category, Numeric_Type 
 Characters with the General_Category property value Number (Nd | Nl | No) do 
 not have the Numeric_Type value None. 
 6.2.0+ 
 Numeric_Type 
 No new assignment of Numeric_Type=di (Digit) will be made to any character. 
 6.1.0+ 
 Script 
 Script, Script_Extensions 
 Whenever the Script property value of an
 assigned character is explicit (that is, not Common, Inherited or Unknown),
 that explicit value must also be contained among the set of values constituting
 the Script_Extensions property value for that character. 
 6.2.0+ 
 These constraints ensure that implementers can simplify or 
 optimize certain aspects of their support for character 
 properties. For further description of these invariants, see
 UAX #44, Unicode Character Database . 
 Alias Stability 
 A. Alias Removal or Changes 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.1+ 
 Property aliases, once defined in PropertyAliases.txt , will never be removed, nor will their precise spelling be changed. 
 Property value aliases, once defined in PropertyValueAliases.txt , will never be removed, nor will their precise spelling be changed. 
 For example, the property alias "White_Space" in PropertyValueAliases.txt will never be removed, nor will its spelling ever be changed to "whitespace" or "whiteSpace" or "White-Space", even though these would be equivalent under loose name matching. 
 This stability guarantee does not apply to aliases for Contributory properties 
 (such as "Other_Alphabetic") 
and their values, nor to aliases for Provisional properties and their values. 
For a list of which properties are Normative or Informative, see
 UAX #44, Unicode Character 
Database . 
 This policy does not preclude the deprecation of a property alias or a property value alias. 
 Such deprecation would not remove the alias; it would only indicate a strong recommendation 
 not to use it. 
 This stability guarantee makes it possible to use property aliases and property value 
 aliases as stable identifiers. For example, aliases may be used as stable identifiers 
 in Unicode Regular Expressions (see 
 Unicode Technical Standard #18, Unicode Regular Expressions ). 
 Note that the stability guarantee for property aliases and property value aliases 
 does not imply that the set of characters with a given Unicode character property 
 value is stable for all Unicode versions. New characters may be added to the standard 
 and thus to such a set, and existing characters may have one (or more) property values 
 changed, and thus be removed from (or added to) such a set. 
 Implementations should always support all of the aliases 
 in PropertyAliases.txt and PropertyValueAliases.txt for any of the Unicode character 
 properties that they support, and should always follow the
 loose matching rule for 
symbolic values specified in UAX #44, 
 Unicode Character Database . For example, differences in case, the presence of 
 underscores, or similar differences in strings representing aliases are not 
 considered to make a distinction when matching aliases. 
 B. Alias Reassignment 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 6.2+ 
 Property aliases, once defined in the Unicode Character
 Database, will never be assigned to different properties. 
 Property value aliases, once defined in the Unicode Character 
 Database, will never be assigned to different property values of the same property. 
 Property aliases are defined in the file 
 PropertyAliases.txt 
 in the Unicode Character Database . 
 Property value aliases are defined in the file 
 PropertyValueAliases.txt 
 in the Unicode Character Database. 
 This policy means that aliases cannot be reassigned to different values. 
 For example, in
 PropertyValueAliases.txt 
 there are the following data lines establishing the relation between different aliases: 
 ea;N                         ;Neutral
 ea;Na                        ;Narrow 
 The alias "N" cannot be moved from being an alias for "Neutral" 
 and to being an alias for "Narrow". Thus a change such as the following is disallowed: 
 ea;Ne                        ;Neutral
 ea; N                          ;Narrow        ;Na 
 Property Alias Uniqueness 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 3.2+ 
 All property aliases constitute a single namespace. 
 Property aliases are guaranteed to be unique within this namespace. 
 For each property, all of its property value 
 aliases constitute a separate namespace, one per property. Within each of 
 these property value alias namespaces, property value aliases are guaranteed to be unique. 
 For the purposes of these uniqueness guarantees, uniqueness is defined by the
 loose 
 matching rule for symbolic values specified in UAX #44, 
 Unicode Character Database . For example, differences in case, the presence of 
 underscores, or similar differences in strings representing aliases are not 
 considered to make a distinction when matching aliases. 
 Identifier Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 3.0+ 
 All strings that are valid 
 default Unicode identifiers will continue to be valid default 
 Unicode identifiers in all subsequent versions of Unicode. Furthermore, 
 default identifiers never contain characters with the Pattern_Syntax 
 or Pattern_White_Space properties. 
 If a string qualifies as an identifier under one version 
 of Unicode, it will qualify as an identifier under all future 
 versions. The reverse is not true—an identifier under Version 
 5.0 may not be an identifier under Version 4.0—it may contain 
 a character that was unassigned under Unicode 4.0, or (very 
 rarely) a Unicode 4.0 character that was not an identifier character 
 in Unicode 4.0, but became one in Unicode 5.0. 
 For more information, see 
 Unicode Standard Annex 
 #31, Unicode Identifiers and Syntax . 
 Case Folding Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.2+ 
 Caseless matching of Unicode strings 
 used for identifiers is stable. 
 Case folding stability ensures that identifiers created in 
 different versions of Unicode can be reliably matched in a case-insensitive 
 manner. For more information on identifiers see
 Unicode 
 Standard Annex #31, 
 Unicode Identifiers 
 and Syntax . Case-insensitive identifiers commonly either exclude compatibility decomposable characters or treat them as equivalent under compatibility normalization; therefore this policy formally applies 
 only to strings normalized with NFKC. The toCaseFold() operation 
 used for caseless matching is the full case folding defined 
 by rule R4 under “Default Case Conversion” in
 Section 3.13,
 Default Case Algorithms of the Unicode Standard. The toNFKC_Casefold() operation is the one defined by rule R5. 
 The formal statement of this policy is: 
 For each string S containing 
 only assigned characters in a given Unicode version, toCasefold(toNFKC(S)) 
 under that version is identical to toCasefold(toNFKC(S)) 
 under any later version of Unicode. 
 For each string S containing only characters with the property XID_Continue in a given Unicode version, toNFKC_Casefold(S) under that version is identical to toNFKC_Casefold(S) under any later version of Unicode. 
 Note: Case folding is 
 not the same as lowercasing, 
 and a case-folded string is not necessarily lowercase. In particular, 
 as of Unicode 8.0, Cherokee has become a bicameral script with the introduction
 of lowercase Cherokee letters, but Cherokee text case folds to the existing 
 uppercase letters. This case folding behavior for Cherokee
 text is precisely to guarantee continued case folding stability. 
 Note: The operations toCasefold(toNFKC(S)) and toNFKC_Casefold(S) are distinct; in particular, the latter removes default ignorable code points such as variation selectors. 
 Case Pair Stability 
 Applicable Version: Unicode 5.0+ 
 Two distinct assigned characters form a 
 case pair when the first character of the pair is the full uppercase of the 
 second character, and the second character is the full lowercase of the first character. 
 (Full upper-and lowercase are defined in
 Section 3.13,
 Default Case Algorithms of the Unicode Standard.) 
 If two characters form a case pair in a version of Unicode, 
 they will remain a case pair in each subsequent version of Unicode. 
 If two characters do not form a case pair in a version 
 of Unicode, they will never become a case pair in any subsequent 
 version of Unicode. 
 More formally, for given versions V and U of Unicode, and 
 any two distinct characters X and Y that are both assigned 
 according to both V and U: 
 toLowercase V (X) = Y AND toUppercase V (Y) = X 
 if and only if 
 toLowercase U (X) = Y AND toUppercase U (Y) = X 
 Note: These conditions apply to two existing, distinct assigned characters. 
 Note: A character that is not part of a case pair could become part of one if the new 
 case pair is formed at the time of the addition of a new character to Unicode. 
 For example, a new capital version of U+028D ( ʍ ) LATIN SMALL LETTER TURNED W 
 could be added in the future to form a new case pair. This example illustrates the 
 usual type of such additions: a new uppercase character for an existing lowercase 
 character. Under Case Folding Stability, the only way 
 for a new lowercase character to become part 
 of a case pair for an existing uppercase letter is for the 
 case folding operation to map the new lowercase character to that existing uppercase 
 character.